LLM's have generally vast amount of Knowledge. With the Current Capabilities of  the models they can easily Act as an Personalized AI Tutor. 
This Project is an attempt to reach that. 

Issues with LLM's in the field of AI Tutors:
1. LLM's have vast knowlege But lack depth Until and unless you give things with very much specificity.
2. Once the System Prompts are generated they cannot be changed or updated(You could do that after some no of steps but these are not self updated)
The above mentioned issue is similar to Continual Learning.

The First Issue is adressed(can be made even better) by giving proper structure of syllabus what you wanna learn. This Syllabus gives very clarity to 
the LLM and Could explain things better continously.

Coming to the second issue
After genertaion of the system prompt (Which has syllabus & Persona explained below clearly ) then comes the explainer agent part which helps the user 
to understand his predefined syllabus with Proper Persona. Issue Comes when the user feels the Persona or syllabus is not good enough to me then he 
can simply go to a new chat. But what if LLM can automatically can upgrade their system propmpts based on the user Iteractions? Ofcourse it shouldn't 
be done continously there should be a trigger for that to change the system prompt. But coming to this Project for now its not needed.

Indepth Explaination of How AI Tutor/ Learning Agent Works:
1. Convo Manager
2. Syllabus generator
3. Persona Prompt Generator for Explainer  
3. Explainer agent 

This implementation is a workflow without much deviations. Resources could be only provided at the starting msg.

Convo Manager - Takes the resources and gets the intial summary of them, its main task is to talk with user and get the key answers for what the user 
want to learn? Why ?(Although not needed) and How . Some times the Convo Manger asks multiple questions if you dont need that simply increase the temperature.
After Getting the necessary information it passes the tag to generate the syllabus. the Tags are produced by convo manager be it for generate, modify , finalize.
and Persona.



Syllabus Generator -  The generation would be dependent on Resource You provide if there 
is no Resource - The Prompt is used to generate is different from the one where there are resources. When given heavy resources it truncates the text to 100000 chars
per resource and creates a Dynamic summary (Which takes the user history as context) and then generates the syllabus. the implemenattion with heavy resources 
could be enhanced if you have higher capable models or paid tier models then you should go and tweak the code(Its simple code) in orchestrator & Dynamic Resource Generation. 
You could also modify syllabus according to your needs.

Perona Prompt Generator - After the syllabus is finalized(By Convo Manager), then the question arises in what way you wanna learn this is the single 
most important thing. You should carefully answer this(Ofcourse it could be updated multistep thing) the answer is instructions for Explainer Agent. Based on the chat history 
and Persona Prompt the new system prompt  is  generated By PersonaPromptBodyPredictSignature.
How the Answer should be - Generally LLM's are very much pleasing But as a AI Tutor it should have 0 pleasing perosnality. the only job is to teach things
efficiently , the answer should contain First Principle Thinking, Socratic Thinking or names Great People from past/present an even character's of movies
and then to be dynamic enough based on present user knowledge and change courses if needed and if you wanna use it in google ai studio 
with google grounding you could say that you have search Capabilities(Or any Tool Capabilities). For me whenver i meantion names of historical figures
and whenever is say it to be serious with inclusipn of FPT & Socratic thinking yielded mind blogging Prompts. The average prompt is bad and you wont learn 
anything. sometimes even after this much effort the end result might be bad then you should just throw it away.

Explainer Agent - After getting syatem Prompt it greets you and start explaining things thereafter. Code and Math Formulaes are rendered Properly. If you wanna use it in 
google ai studio or some other thing just copy the system prompt from admin and paste it to your prefered provider. 

For What Topics this is good?(My experience)
Any topic which requires deep thinking and where image and audio is not needed (Like learning music can be done through google ai studio but not preffered) 
and things where you need extreme precision from your preffered resource.

My Prompts Until Now are Based on Increasing Cognitive Ability, Learning Chess & Go,Brain Control and on Competitive spirit.
Coming to technical things i have used this to revise classic ml, For Reading Advanced RL (Resource Barto for this syllabus is created through Google AI studio)
and for understanding codebases.

Its on point on things like cognitive ability/Chess etc but lacks when thing is highly technical and for that i though some alternatives i would discuss 
it below.

Improvements
Technical Improvements
1. Implementing a RAG For Explainer Agent so that it would work way better for technical things. But the issues is this cannot be self hosted tried 
a 1B Model to run on My Laptop it has given 50% accuracy on checking mteb there is an 7B Model which could give higher accuracy.

Other Improvements:
1. Prompts can be Improved some prompts are very long (FormatSyllabusXMLToMarkdown) and some might feel they are not needed and could update your self
The prompting questions of Convo Manager could be changed and while the action of Persona Prompt generator could be More Agentic Than Single step.
2. The UI Could be Improved. i would try to improve the UI in near Future. The features like showing the system prompt on top, having clear transition 
through the stages could be better







