|  |  |  | 
www .amanchadha.comDistilled • LeetCode • Asymptotic Notations
What are Asymptotic Notations?
(Inefficient) Alternatives
Types of Asymptotic Notations
Types of Functions, Limits and Simplification
Big-O
Example 1
Example 2
Big-Omega
Small-o
Small-omega
Theta
Endnotes
Books
Online Resources
What are Asymptotic Notations?
Asymptotic notations allow us to analyze an algorithm’ s running time as the input size for the algorithm
increases. This is also known as an algorithm’ s growth rate .
Asymptotic notations helps us answer the following questions:
Does the algorithm suddenly become incredibly slow  when the input size grows?
Does it mostly maintain  its quick runtime as the input size increases ?
(Inefficient) Alternatives
One way would be to count  the number of primitive operations at different input sizes .
(-) Though this is a valid solution, the amount of work this takes for even simple algorithms is
unjustifiable .
Another way is to physically measure  the amou nt of time an algorithm takes to complete given different
input sizes .
(-) However , the accuracy of this meth od is bound to environmental variables such as the underlying
hardware infrastru cture’ s processing  power , etc. In other words, the measured times would only be
relative to the machine they were computed on.
Types of Asymptotic Notations
In the initial section on What are Asymptotic Notations?” , we described how an asymptotic notation
identifies the behavior of an algorithm as the input size changes. Let us imagine an algorithm as a function  
,  as the input size, and  being the runtime  of the algorithm. So for a given algorithm  with input
size , you get some resultant runtime .
This results in a graph where the Y-axis is the runtime , the X-axis is the input size, and the plot
points  are the runtime for a given input size .
You can label a function, or algorithm, with an asymptotic notation in many different ways – you can
describe an algorithm by its best case, worst case, or average case. However , the most common is to
analyze an algorithm by its worst case .
You typically don’t evaluate using the best case  because those conditions should not be what you’re
planning for. An excellent example of this is sorting algorithms; particu larly, adding elements to a tree
structure . The best case for most algorithms could be as low as a single operation . However , in some
cases, the elemen t you’re adding needs to be sorted appropriately through the tree, which could mean
examining an entire branch . This is the worst case, and this is what we plan for .
Types of Functions, Limits and Simplification
Function Form  
Logarithmic
Linear
Quadratic
Polynomial
Exponential
These are some fundamental functio n growth classifications used in various notations. The list starts at the
slowest growing function (logarithmic, fastest execution time) and goes on to the fastest growing
(exponential, slowest execution time). Note that as  increases for each of those functions, the result
increases much quicker in quadratic, polynomial, and exponential, compared to logarithmic and linear .
It is worth noting that for the notation s about to be discussed, you should do your best to use the simplest
terms. This means to disregard:
Constants
Lower order terms
This is because as the input size (or  in our  exam ple) grows, and tends to , the lower order terms
and constants are of little to no importance. That being said, if you have constants that are huge (read: a
ridiculous, unimaginable amount), realize that simplifying skews your notation accuracy .
Since we want the simplest “base” form, let’ s update our table a bit:
Function Form  
Logarithmic
Linear
Quadratic
Polynomial
Exponential
Big-O
Big-O, commonly written as O, is an asymptotic  notation for the worst case , or ceiling of growth  for a
given function. It provides us with an asymptotic upper bound  for the growth rate of the runtime of an
algorithm.
Say  is your algorithm runtime, and  is an arbitrary time complexity you are trying to relate to your
algorithm.  is , if for some real constants  and ,  for every  input
size  .
Big-O is the primary notation  used for general algorithm time complexity .
The diagram below from Big-O Cheat Sheet  illustrates what a Bio-O time complexity chart looks like with a
range of standard complexities.
Example 1
Is  
Using the definition of Big-O,
Is there some pair of constants ,  that satisfies this for all 
Yes! The definition of Big-O has been met therefore  is .
Example 2
Is  
Using the definition of Big-O,
Is there some pair of constants ,  that satisfies this for all 
No, there isn’t. Thus,  is NOT .
Big-Omega
Big-Omega, commonly written as , is an asymptotic notation for the best case , or a floor growth rate
for a given functi on. It provid es us with an asymptotic lower bound  for the growth rate of the runtime of
an algorithm.
 is , if for some real constants  and  ,  is  for every input
size  .
Note:
The asym ptotic growth rates provided by big-O and big-omega notation may or may not be
asymptotically tight .
Thus we use small-o and small-omega notation to denote bounds that are not asymptotically tight ,
which we delve into in the below sections.
Small-o
Small-o, commonly written as , is an asymptotic notation to denote the upper bound  (that is not
asymptotically tight ) on the growth rate of the runtime of an algorithm.
 is , if for all real constants  and  ,  is <  for every input size
 .
The defin itions of O-notation and o-notation are similar . The main difference is that in ,
the bound  holds for some  constant , but in , the bound  
 holds for all constants .
Small-omega
Small-omega, commonly written as , is an asymptotic notation to denote the lower bound  (that is not
asymptotically tight ) on the growth rate of the runtime of an algorithm.
 is , if for all real constants  and ,  is  for every input
size .
The defin itions of -notation and -notation are similar . The main difference is that in ,
the bound  holds for some  constant , but in , the bound  
 holds for all constants .
Theta
Theta, commonly written as , is an asymptotic notation to denote the asymptotically tight bound  on the
growth rate of the runtime of an algorithm.
 is , if for some real constants  and  ,  is < 
is <  for every input size .
Therefore,  is  implies  is  as well as  is .
Endnotes
It’s hard to keep this kind of topic short, and you should go through the books and online resources listed. They
go into much greater depth with definitions and examples.
Books
Introduction to Algorithms by CLRS
Algorithms by Robert Sedgewick
Algorithm Design by Michael Goodrich and Roberto T amassia
Online Resources
MIT: Big-O Lecture
KhanAcademy
Big-O Cheatsheet  - common structures, operations and algorithms, ranked by complexity .Distilled AI
search...Back to aman.ai
fn f(n) f
n f(n)
They say, “plan for the worst and hope for the best”.
logn
a⋅n+b
a⋅+b⋅n+c n2
a⋅+…+a⋅+a⋅+a⋅,where z is some constant nzn2n1n0
,where a is some constant an
n
n f(n) ∞
logn
n
n2
,where z is some constant nz
,where a is some constant an
f(n) g(n)
f(n)O(g(n) c(c>0) n0f(n)<=c⋅g(n)
n(n> )n0
f(n)=3⋅logn+100
g(n)=logn
f(n)O(g(n))?
3⋅logn+100<=c⋅logn
cn0 n> ?n0
3⋅logn+100<=150⋅logn,n>2 (undefined at n = 1)
f(n)O(g(n))
f(n)=3⋅n2
g(n)=n
f(n)O(g(n))?
3∗ <=c∗n n2
cn0 n>0?
f(n) O(g(n))
Ω
f(n)Ω(g(n)) c(c>0) n0(>0) n0 f(n)≥c⋅g(n)
n(n> )n0
o
f(n)o(g(n)) c(c>0) n0(>0) n0 f(n) c⋅g(n)
n(n> )n0
f(n)=O(g(n))
f(n)≤g(n) c>0 f(n)=o(g(n))
f(n)<c⋅g(n) c>0
ω
f(n)ω(g(n)) c(c>0) (>0) n0n0 f(n)>c⋅g(n)
n(n> )n0
Ω ω f(n)=Ω(g(n))
f(n)>=g(n) c>0 f(n)=ω(g(n))
f(n)>c⋅g(n) c>0
θ
f(n)θ(g(n)) ,c1c2 n0(>0,>0,>0) c1 c2 n0 ⋅g(n) c1 f(n)
⋅g(n) c2 n(n> )n0
f(n)θ(g(n)) f(n)O(g(n)) f(n)Ω(g(n))